rice/smgt430/plan/2024-01.md, before:


# SMGT 430: Introduction to Sport Analytics

## 2024-01-09

9:25-9:30 small talk

9:30-9:35 ask students to list concepts they already know from sport analytics (activating prior knowledge)

9:35-9:40 demonstrate the skeleton of a concept map

9:40-9:50 students create concept maps in groups (making connections)

9:50-9:55 one or two student groups explain their concept map (peer instruction)

9:55-10:05 shuffle groups and create new concept maps (repeated practice)

10:05-10:10 share my concept map with the class

10:10-10:15 discuss how topics from original list fit into my concept map

10:15-10:25 motivational speech about mindset
1. This is my first time teaching SMGT 430 and only my second time teaching at Rice. Please be patient with me as I work through kinks in the course. The feedback last semester was largely positive, but some students said they were surprised by the amount of work and how hard the grading was. I grade hard because sport analytics is a very competitive field, and I want to push you to improve yourself. I ask you to adopt a growth mindset this semester and focus on learning over earning a grade. This class involves a lot of math and coding. If you are thinking about dropping the class because you are struggling, I would encourage you to have a conversation with me first in case I can help.
2. By being in this class, you have a unique opportunity that I didn't have when I was in school. You are surrounded by peers who are passionate about both math and sports. Take advantage of this! I sincerely hope that you will learn from each other more than you learn from me. I have two goals with this class: 1. Give you some tools and the opportunity for hands-on application of ideas; 2. Encourage you to think for yourself. I don't want to indoctrinate you into a certain way of thinking about sport analytics. The way you're ultimately going to be successful in life is thinking for yourself, not regurgitating what you've been taught.

10:25-10:40 students complete Canvas "quiz"

Reflection
- We ran about 10 minutes late and didn't have time for the motivational speech.
- Students seemed reasonably engaged in the class period.
- Remember to bring paper and pens for the concept mapping exercise!

Subjective Rating 4/5

## 2024-01-11

Notes
- Mention the first homework assignment is due at midnight next Tuesday.
- Remind students that this is an intro class, no background in sport analytics expected. The reason we spent yesterday discussing what students already know is to acknowledge that we do have some existing knowledge in the room, and we want to activate that knowledge and connect it to what we're covering in class. I hope that learning from each other will be a big part of this course.

9:25-9:30 Motivational speech about mindset

9:30-9:40 Part 1 of R tutorial

9:40-9:50 Part 2 of R tutorial

9:50-9:55 Think for yourself: What is a research question you have about your favorite sport that you might be able to answer with sport analytics?

9:55-10:00 Pair discussion

10:00-10:05 Group discussion

10:05-10:15 Part 3 of R tutorial

10:15-10:25 Part 4 of R tutorial

10:25-10:40 students complete exit ticket and quiz

Reflection
- We only had time to do parts 1 and 2 of the R tutorial
- Students really lit up during the group discussion of project ideas
- I forgot to adjust the quiz to reflect that we only covered half of the tutorial!

Subjective Rating 4/5

## 2024-01-09

Notes
- Apologize for the quiz going beyond what we covered in class
- Start with sport analytics concept map!

9:25-9:40 Free Throw Exercise, Part 1
- 9:25-9:30 Students draw "true talents" and simulate 30 free throws
- 9:30-9:35 Ask students to predict the number written on the winner's card
- 9:35-9:40 Visualize submissions, ask high/low/median students to explain their predictions

9:40-9:55 Regression to the mean lecture, part 1

9:55 Announce the winner of the prediction contest

9:55-10:10 Think for yourself / pair discussion / group discussion
- How could you estimate the population mean and variance in a real-life application?

10:10-10:25 Regression to the mean lecture, part 2

10:25-10:40 students complete exit ticket and quiz

Commit message:

update lesson plans following Jan 18 lectures

rice/smgt430/plan/2024-01.md, after:


# SMGT 430: Introduction to Sport Analytics

## 2024-01-09

9:25-9:30 small talk

9:30-9:35 ask students to list concepts they already know from sport analytics (activating prior knowledge)

9:35-9:40 demonstrate the skeleton of a concept map

9:40-9:50 students create concept maps in groups (making connections)

9:50-9:55 one or two student groups explain their concept map (peer instruction)

9:55-10:05 shuffle groups and create new concept maps (repeated practice)

10:05-10:10 share my concept map with the class

10:10-10:15 discuss how topics from original list fit into my concept map

10:15-10:25 motivational speech about mindset
1. This is my first time teaching SMGT 430 and only my second time teaching at Rice. Please be patient with me as I work through kinks in the course. The feedback last semester was largely positive, but some students said they were surprised by the amount of work and how hard the grading was. I grade hard because sport analytics is a very competitive field, and I want to push you to improve yourself. I ask you to adopt a growth mindset this semester and focus on learning over earning a grade. This class involves a lot of math and coding. If you are thinking about dropping the class because you are struggling, I would encourage you to have a conversation with me first in case I can help.
2. By being in this class, you have a unique opportunity that I didn't have when I was in school. You are surrounded by peers who are passionate about both math and sports. Take advantage of this! I sincerely hope that you will learn from each other more than you learn from me. I have two goals with this class: 1. Give you some tools and the opportunity for hands-on application of ideas; 2. Encourage you to think for yourself. I don't want to indoctrinate you into a certain way of thinking about sport analytics. The way you're ultimately going to be successful in life is thinking for yourself, not regurgitating what you've been taught.

10:25-10:40 students complete Canvas "quiz"

Reflection
- We ran about 10 minutes late and didn't have time for the motivational speech.
- Students seemed reasonably engaged in the class period.
- Remember to bring paper and pens for the concept mapping exercise!

Subjective Rating 4/5

## 2024-01-11

Notes
- Mention the first homework assignment is due at midnight next Tuesday.
- Remind students that this is an intro class, no background in sport analytics expected. The reason we spent yesterday discussing what students already know is to acknowledge that we do have some existing knowledge in the room, and we want to activate that knowledge and connect it to what we're covering in class. I hope that learning from each other will be a big part of this course.

9:25-9:30 Motivational speech about mindset

9:30-9:40 Part 1 of R tutorial

9:40-9:50 Part 2 of R tutorial

9:50-9:55 Think for yourself: What is a research question you have about your favorite sport that you might be able to answer with sport analytics?

9:55-10:00 Pair discussion

10:00-10:05 Group discussion

10:05-10:15 Part 3 of R tutorial

10:15-10:25 Part 4 of R tutorial

10:25-10:40 students complete exit ticket and quiz

Reflection
- We only had time to do parts 1 and 2 of the R tutorial
- Students really lit up during the group discussion of project ideas
- I forgot to adjust the quiz to reflect that we only covered half of the tutorial!

Subjective Rating 4/5

## 2024-01-16

All Rice classes cancelled because of cold

## 2024-01-18

Notes
- Apologize for the quiz going beyond what we covered in class
- Explain that due dates have been revised following cancellation
- Start with sport analytics concept map!

9:25-9:40 Free Throw Exercise, Part 1
- 9:25-9:30 Students draw "true talents" and simulate 30 free throws
- 9:30-9:35 Ask students to predict the number written on the winner's card
- 9:35-9:40 Visualize submissions, ask high/low/median students to explain their predictions

9:40-9:55 Regression to the mean lecture, part 1

9:55 Announce the winner of the prediction contest

9:55-10:10 Assignment #1 discussion
    9:55-10:00 Partner discussion #1
    10:00-10:05 Partner discussion #2
    10:05-10:10 Larger group discussion

10:10-10:25 Regression to the mean lecture, part 2

10:25-10:40 students complete exit ticket and quiz

Reflection
- I tried to cram too much into this class period
- I saw a lot of confused faces in the room
- More examples would have been helpful

Subjective Rating 3/5

## 2024-01-23

Notes
- Start with the posterior mean on the board, and discuss the interpretation of each component in terms of real-life sports
